                                   Simics^(R)

Documentation Contents

   No Category

   Simics Version 7
   Revision       7080
   Date           2025-04-14

   Table of Contents

   1 Important Manuals

   Release Notes

   Installation Guide

   Getting Started

   Simics User's Guide

   Analyzer User's Guide

   Ethernet Networking Technology Guide

   Product Family Overview

   Simics Target Guides

   Simics Reference Manuals

   Model Builder User's Guide

   DML Reference Manual

   Additional Manuals

   2 Conventions

1   Important Manuals

   Simics comes with many guides and manuals: the most important will be
   briefly described here.

   The documents presented here are listed--at least at the beginning--in the
   order in which it makes most sense to read them. If you have not installed
   Simics yet, we advise you start with the Simics's Release Notes and the
   Installation Guide. If you are a new user, Getting Started will give you
   an overview of what you can achieve with Simics, as well as a good
   starting point for entering the other manuals.

  Release Notes

   The main Release Notes document identifies important information for the
   Simics 7 release. In addition to listing the major changes and new
   features introduced in Simics 7, it also identifies the major known
   limitations and other important information. All users, and particularly
   those who are Simics system administrators, should review this document
   carefully.

   Simics add-on packages may also provide a package-specific release notes
   document.

  Installation Guide

   This document describes how to install and configure the Simics product.
   It is divided in two documents, one for Windows and one for Linux users.
   The document identifies the hardware/software requirement for installing
   and running Simics as well as the installation instructions. In addition,
   license configuration is also covered. This document should be read by
   users installing Simics themselves, and all system administrators for the
   Simics product.

  Getting Started

   This document provides users new to Simics a quick introduction on how to
   effectively use the product. It describes the concepts and benefits of
   Virtualized Systems Development, the products in the Simics family, and
   also provides a tutorial and links to other Simics documents that will
   help a user to become effective with Simics. This document should be read
   by any user new to Simics or requiring a brief overview of the product.

  Simics User's Guide

   This document covers the features of Simics. It explores the environment
   provided by the Simics product and explain how to create, inspect and
   modify simulations. It provides an introduction to software either as a
   stand-alone debugger, or as a back-end for other debuggers such as Wind
   River Workbench or GDB. It explains how to improve simulation speed by
   making use of options such as page-sharing, multithreading and distributed
   simulations.

  Analyzer User's Guide

   This document describes the tools provided to analyze the target software
   running in the simulation, such as cache simulation, process tracking and
   debugging, and code coverage.

  Ethernet Networking Technology Guide

   This document covers the usage of Ethernet networks in Simics, both as
   entirely virtual networks between simulated systems, or when connecting
   the simulation to real networks.

  Product Family Overview

   This introductory document gives an overview of the Simics product family,
   listing features and product characteristics.

  Simics Target Guides

   Each Virtual System add-on package is provided with a target guide that
   describes the specifics of this particular board or platform. It contains
   instructions on how to customize the platform and how to install new
   operating systems. Users working on a specific virtual platform should
   read the corresponding target guide.

  Simics Reference Manuals

   Simics and all its add-on packages contain a reference manual. This
   document lists all the commands available, as well as the components,
   classes, haps and interfaces provided by the packages. The reference
   manual provided with Simics also contains a description of the API
   functions available.

  Model Builder User's Guide

   This document provides documentation for creating new models in Simics, at
   the device and at the board level. It contains among other things a
   tutorial and an overview of various topics relevant to modeling as well as
   a more in-depth description of all aspects of modeling in Simics, from the
   build environment to examples of complex models and various topics that a
   developer may find useful. This document should be read by users wanting
   to extend their simulation with their own models or wishing to create
   their own simulated systems.

   This document also provides documentation for creating simulator add-ons
   to Simics that extend its functionality.

  DML Reference Manual

   This document provides a complete description of the Simics^(R) Device
   Modeling Language (DML) and compiler. It is a very useful reference for
   all model developers using DML for modeling.

  Additional Manuals

   Simics and its add-on packages contain more manuals than those listed
   above:

     * Application notes tend to deal with very specific subjects, such as
       Understanding Simics Timing.
     * Technology Guides cover the simulation of specific technologies, such
       as RapidIO in Simics.
     * Finally, programming guides are provided for specialized APIs such as
       the Link Library or the C++ Device API.

2   Conventions

   Scripts, screen dumps and code fragments are presented in a monospace
   font. In screen dumps, user input is always presented in bold font, as in:

 Welcome to the Simics prompt
 simics> this is something that you should type

   Artificial line breaks may be introduced to prevent the text from being
   too wide. A small arrow pointing down indicates that the interrupted text
   continues on the next line:

 This is an artificial Line break
 line break that should not be there.

   The directory where the Simics Base package or any add-on package is
   installed is referred to as [simics], for example when mentioning the
   [simics]/RELEASENOTES.html file. In the same way, the shortcut [project]
   is used to point at the user's project directory.

   The character "/" is used to separate directories and files, for Linux. If
   you are using Windows, you should read the character as "\" instead.
